# Functional_Prog
Project for CS 441. Introductory experience with functional programming with Clojure

# About Project
This project is intended to give you some exposure and introductory experience with functional programming, and to re-familiarize yourself with the effects of concurrency. The final project will be written in Clojuren - a LISP descendant.The program itself is quite simple, merely sorting a large list of unsigned 32-bit integers. The program will read the data from a large file, then measure the time needed to sort them using a standard algorithm (quicksort and mergesort are both simple to code in functional languages). The important thing is that the algorithm uses some form of divide-and-conquer strategy, in which there is more than one recursive call made. You will then compare how long it takes to carry out the same task using various multithreading options. Finally, you will prepare a short report summarizing your findings and explaining why you saw the results you did. Program input is a text file with one million integer values, 1 per line. During development, you may want to start with a smaller subset of items—100, then 1000, etc.--for faster turnaround. (Likewise, if the running time is getting inconveniently long with less than the whole file, it’s OK to use a subset; just discuss that in your report.) 

# Clojure

Clojure runs on the Java Virtual Machine, and so has access to the full Java API. This makes managing multiple threads fairly easy, setting up a thread pool of specified size to handle the recursive calls. As the JVM allows system-level programming, the programmer has fine control over the number of threads, and many of you are already familiar with the Java I/O and error-handling functions. But, Clojure is a mostly-volunteer project, and has fallen in and out of careful maintenance. It appears to be on something of a down period lately, so there may not be much support out there. Developing in Clojure: The easiest development environments for Clojure are Eclipse, which has a Clojure plug-in, or CounterClockwise, which is a standalone Eclipse editor/IDE. The default Clojure IDE, Leinengen, is favored by enthusiastic Clojure developers but isn’t particularly beginner-friendly. The Eclipse plugin and CounterClockwise are both installed on Flarsheim labs and, like Clojure, are free downloads if you want to install on your own machine. If you develop in Clojure: Time your sorting algorithm using 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 threads. Run the program 3 times under each condition and report the average time.


